Think Left Conference This Weekend in Derry Search Log in Join Log in Join Educate Agitate Organise Think Left Conference This Weekend in Derry Annual Think Left Conference kicks off this Friday in St Columb’s Hall, Derry 2 Oct 2026 Clip of the Think Left 2026 poster including the tagline 'A Weekend of Radical Ideas, Debate, Education, Music, Film and Culture October 2-5 2026 St. Columb's Hall, Derry.' "This year's Think Left Conference comes at a crucial moment," say organisers Becca Bor and Darryl Horan "The conference will deal directly with the big questions we face locally and internationally. "We're looking forward to hearing from Aoife Moore, a young Derry woman giving voice to millions through cutting edge journalism. "Sylvia Kirkegaarde will uncover the agitational Derry visit of Eleanor Marx to address shirt factory workers in St Columb's Hall. "We are delighted to be joined in Derry by Hossam El-Hamalawy, a leader of the Egyptian revolution and central Palestine solidarity organiser over many years in Cairo. "French socialist leader and postal worker, Olivier Besancenot will be in Derry to discuss the danger posed by the fascist National Rally party in the forthcoming Presidential election. "Workers on the frontline at Magee, Altnagelvin Hospital and in public transport will discuss their campaigns for pay justice and to defend services. "Young people from Derry will discuss forging a pathway to liberation during a 'dystopian time'. "Gaeilgeoirí will debate whether capitalism is the enemy of the Irish Language? "Ann-Louise Bresnahan, TD Paul Murphy and Anne Alexander will look at AI, data centres, militarism and whether or not they represent a threat to humanity. "Dr Sinéad Kennedy, Maynooth University Senior Tutor and Coalition to Repeal the Eighth Amendment founder, and Maeve O’Neill will put forward a bold Socialist Feminist manifesto for a united Ireland. "Catherine Pollock, Davy McAuley and Shankill Road trade unionist Jim Larmour will dissect the crisis of political unionism and point towards an alternative. "Socialist MLA Gerry Carroll will discuss Stormont's future in the midst of resolute opposition from Garvaghy Road residents to a sectarian Orange Order march, racist pogroms, cuts to public services, MLA pay scandals and budget crisis. "Meetings on Palestine solidarity and opposition to genocide will feature Eamonn McCann, Eleanor Lam and Jordan Devlin. "Book events at the conference include A Bitter Harvest: The Good Life and Unresolved Murder of a Derry GAA Man by Derry author and campaigner Garbhán Downey; Troubled Water: How Lough Neagh is being Destroyed by Corporate Greed and Political Neglect by Tommy Greene; and, Red Triangle: Workers, Loyalists and Partition by Feargal Mac Bhloscaidh, Senior Lecturer in History at St. Mary’s University, "Margo Harkin will join Think Left for a special screening of Stolen , her pathbreaking documentary exposing the systemic cruelty of Ireland's Mother and Baby Homes." Think Left's culture programme features performances from Eoghan Ó Ceannabháin, Sean McKenna, Annie Ward, Steph Pike, Anne McClean, Conor O'Kane, Eileen Webster and art exhibitions. Think Left is free to attend. Registration is available here: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/1998161766633 The full programme is available here: https://www.facebook.com/share/1V84cUB7dp/ and here: https://www.instagram.com/thinkleftconference?stkn=MTZqY2xwbmphY2luMQ==