Carroll Brings Toxic Lough Neagh Water into Assembly Chamber: "Would any MLA Take a Sip?" Search Log in Join Log in Join Lough Neagh Carroll Brings Toxic Lough Neagh Water into Assembly Chamber: "Would any MLA Take a Sip?" "This disaster was created by the Going for Growth strategy... On Saturday, thousands will march for clean water at Stormont. Fishers, farmers, swimmers, trade unionists, from every community. Clean water isn't orange or green. It's a fundamental right." 22 Sep 2026 Images of the poster for March for Clean Water Stormont 2pm Sat 26 Sept by Save Lough Neagh Campaign behind the toxic bottle of water. Gerry Carroll holding the bottle with an image of Stormont Assembly behind. Gerry Carroll today brought a jar of toxic, blue-green algae water from Lough Neagh into the Assembly chamber. He challenged Executive Ministers to face up to the crisis they created, and accused the DUP of whipping up sectarian tensions around Drumcree to distract from it. Speaking after the stunt, Gerry Carroll said: "What I held up in the chamber today is Lough Neagh. It's green, it stinks, and it's toxic. And it is the source of at least 40% of our drinking water. People are expected to drink this, to bathe their children in it and to swim in it. I asked MLAs today whether any of them would take a sip. Not one of them would, and yet they expect the public to live with it.” "This water is choking wildlife and destroying biodiversity in the largest freshwater lake on these islands. Swans have been trapped in algae, eels are suffocating this ecological and biodiversity crisis has been getting worse every summer since 2023. "This disaster was created by the Going for Growth strategy the Executive parties and official opposition signed up to, by factory farms waved through on the lough shore, by underinvestment in sewage infrastructure and by a total failure to crack down on agri-polluters. "Instead of fixing it, the DUP are busy trying to stir up sectarian hatred around Drumcree to distract from their own scandals. Why aren't they, and their Executive partners, fixing the mess they made in our waterways instead of stirring up division? "On Saturday, thousands will march for clean water at Stormont. Fishers, farmers, swimmers, trade unionists, from every community. Clean water isn't orange or green. It's a fundamental right. People Before Profit will be there, and we'll keep fighting until the polluters are held to account and Lough Neagh is saved. March for Clean Water Stormont 2pm Sat 26 Sept by Save Lough Neagh. saveloughneagh.com for details and buses.