March for Clean Water: Stormont Search Log in Join Log in Join Environment March for Clean Water: Stormont Assemble 2pm, Stormont Gates, Saturday 26 September 25 Sep 2026 As Stormont returns from its summer break, communities around Lough Neagh and across the North are continuing to face a growing environmental and public health crisis. Toxic algae continues to ravage Lough Neagh and our waterways, with people living around the Lough reporting foul odours, wildlife dying in the algae and serious concerns about the quality of their drinking water. From the Lough shore to Upper Bann, Antrim and beyond, communities are being forced to live with the consequences of a system that has repeatedly failed to protect our water. On Saturday 26 September, swimmers, fishermen, trade unionists, community campaigners and families from across the North will come together at Stormont to demand urgent action. The crisis in Lough Neagh cannot be separated from the wider political choices being made about the environment. Instead of confronting the pollution that has poisoned our waterways, politicians have repeatedly sought to distract from the scale of the problem and stoke sectarian division. Meanwhile, the same policies continue to threaten our water, from intensive agriculture and factory farming to the expansion of data centres and the failure to properly fund and manage NI Water. We need a fundamental change in priorities. Clean, safe water is a basic public good and a public health necessity, not something to be sacrificed for the interests of big business. People and families of all backgrounds are being invited to join the march and make clear that our waterways belong to all of us. We need unprecedented action to clean up Lough Neagh, protect our drinking water and put the health of communities and the environment before profit. March for Clean Water 2pm, Stormont Gates Saturday 26 September Buses are being organised from across the country. Details will be released through Save Lough Neagh - ( https://www.saveloughneagh.com/ ) social media and website. Flood the streets for clean water! Please share widely and support the march.