People Before Profit TD and President of the Irish Anti-War Movement Urges Big Turn-Out for Anti-Trump Demonstration Search Log in Join Log in Join Protest People Before Profit TD and President of the Irish Anti-War Movement Urges Big Turn-Out for Anti-Trump Demonstration Trump’s warmongering and support for Israel causing death and destruction in the Middle East and severe economic hardship for ordinary people in Ireland and across the world, says Deputy Boyd Barrett 11 Sep 2026 In a statement, Richard Boyd Barrett, People Before Profit TD and President of the Irish Anti-War Movement has urged the public to turn out in large numbers this Saturday to express their opposition to the visit of Donald Trump and the agenda he represents. Deputy Boyd Barrett, who was one of the main organisers of the huge 2003 protests against the US-led war on Iraq, will be speaking at the demonstration organised by the Irish Anti-War Movement, the Irish Neutrality league, the Irish Palestine Solidarity Camapign and supported by a wide coalition of of left political parties, anti-racist, environmental, women’s rights groups and more. The protest will assemble at 1pm at the Garden of Remembrance , Parnell Square and will march through O'Connell St to Molesworth St where a rally will take place. Richard Boyd Barrett said: “I strongly urge people to get out on the streets tomorrow to protest against Trump, everything that he represents and the disgraceful decision of the government to invite him and spend large amounts of public money rolling out the red carpet for him. Trump is a monster and bully who is up to his neck in the horrific genocide being inflicted by Israel on the people of Palestine. He has threatened or actually attacked multiple countries, as well as stirring up prejudice hate and division, targeting women, people of colour and the LGBT community. The illegal and murderous war he has started with Israel against Iran is causing death and destruction across the Middle East but is also leading to severe economic hardship for people in this country and across the world. Every single household in this country is facing rocketing energy prices because of Trump’s bloody warmongering. That means serious hardship for hundreds of thousands of households in this country and that is now set to get worse this winter, as Trump’s warmongering continues. It beggars belief that that the Irish government invited Trump to come here when he is responsible for such horror and suffering around the world and when his actions and policies are imposing economic pain and hardship on every household in this country. The government’s disgraceful decision to invite Trump here underlines the fact that rather than challenge the rotten and dangerous agenda that Trump represents, the Irish government are leaning into it – prioritising the interests of tech billionaires and attacking our neutrality. That’s why we need to get large numbers of people out on the streets to represent the real views and aspirations of the people of this country for peace and human solidarity not the blood-thirst and hate represented by Trump.” PROTEST MARCH ASSEMBLES AT PARNELL SQUARE IN DUBLIN AT 1PM. Join the People Before Profit contingent on the march. BECOME A MEMBER of People Before Profit today.