Zack Polanski selected as Green Party candidate for Holborn and St Pancras byelection: “I love this place… I’ll fight for you” - Green Party Skip to content Skip to footer Zack Polanski selected as Green Party candidate for Holborn and St Pancras byelection: “I love this place… I’ll fight for you” 11 September 2026 / 11 September 2026 by Green Party Zack Polanski has been selected as the Green Party’s candidate for the Holborn and St Pancras by-election on Thursday 8 th October. The Green Party Leader was chosen by local Green Party members in Camden on Thursday evening, with his successful candidacy announced this morning at an event at Kings Place in King’s Cross. Zack’s message to those in the room was crystal clear: “Greens might be the underdogs in this election – but we have the momentum and we can win.” “I love this place… I’ll fight for you” After a warm embrace on stage with Green MP and close friend Hannah Spencer, Zack began his speech by outlining his long connection to the constituency. “When I first moved to London 20 years ago it was Camden I made my home – and I’ve lived and worked across Holborn and St Pancras for many of the years since.” From karaoke nights in the Black Cap pub in Camden Town, to pandemic lockdowns spent just outside the border of the constituency, to his former flat in Mornington Crescent that rumbled with the vibrations of the nearby tube line, Zack’s roots in the area run deep. Zack Polanski with Green politicians and campaigners at the candidate announcement for the Holborn and St Pancras by-election (Photo: Aldo Ciarrocchi) But he knows life is getting harder for many residents. “I love this place. But I also know times are tough here in Holborn and St Pancras. My story of constant moving around flats is such a common story for Londoners – and I know many people here are really struggling right now.” “Over the week I’ve knocked on hundreds of doors here, and spoken with so many people who love this place – people who were born here, people who have made it their home. But people are telling me it’s getting harder to live here.” Citing increasing housing costs, unaffordable bills, mouldy housing conditions, and persistent crime as some of the issues affecting the area, Zack pledged to “fight” for local people. “The people of Holborn and St Pancras want better for this place – and I’ll fight for you.” “Greens might be the underdogs in this election – but we have the momentum and we can win” Zack was in no doubt that this contest for Keir Starmer’s old seat will be between the Greens and Labour. And the Greens can win! “Greens might be the underdogs in this election – but we have the momentum and we can win.” “It’s us against Labour – before May we had one councillor here and now we have 10. And last weekend we had so many people on the streets that we delivered leaflets to the whole constituency in just a few hours.” Green MP for Gorton and Denton – and Parliamentary by-election winner – Hannah Spencer introduces Zack Polanski as the Green candidate for Holborn and St Pancras (Photo: Aldo Ciarrocchi) Of course, it’s not just in Camden that the Green Party has been winning, growing, and putting pressure on Labour. “In February, we elected the first northern Green MP – my friend Hannah Spencer. That was a seismic moment that marked a turning point not just for our party but for the entire country.” “Historic Green wins – in Gorton and Denton, in Hackney and Lewisham, right across the country – have piled pressure on Labour to abandon some of their most unpopular policies and take small steps in the right direction on others.” “But we cannot take the pressure off now.” “Voting Green sends a clear signal – we want better for our communities” The best way to keep the pressure on? Another Green MP. A member of the London Assembly for the past five years, Zack has been working on behalf of Londoners to push Labour to do better on the issues that matter to people. And he can do the same in Parliament. “I am here to fight for you. Between now and polling day, I’ll be on the doorsteps listening to people about the issues that matter to them.”Zack Polanski after being selected as the Green Party candidate for the next MP for Holborn and St Pancras. — The Green Party of England & Wales (@greenparty.org.uk) 2026-09-11T12:00:42.059Z While another Labour MP “would signal to a Labour council, a Labour Mayor and a Labour Government that they can start taking voters for granted once again,” Zack said, “Voting Green sends a clear signal – we want better for our communities.” As Green MP for Holborn and St Pancras, Zack would “fight every day” on the issues that matter most to local people. “For rent controls, new council homes and fairness for leaseholders – so that people can afford to stay in the places they call home. Ending the scandal of water companies pumping sewage into our rivers and charging us extra for it – to bring down bills for everyone. Communities where everyone feels safe and supported.” “This by-election is historic for the Green Party – but more importantly, it’s a chance for Holborn and St Pancras to turn the page on years of Labour neglect. And instead get a Green MP who will fight for you.” Labour running scared Of course, Zack won’t wait until he’s in the House of Commons to keep Labour honest. On the same day Zack was selected as the Green candidate for Holborn and St Pancras, media reports suggested Andy Burnham will delay announcing his decision on drilling in the Jackdaw gas field until after a certain by-election in a certain constituency that happens to care about climate action. In response, Zack said: “Labour are running scared, and have started the campaign with an act of dishonesty and betrayal.” “They are clearly going to allow new drilling in the North Sea but want to keep it under wraps during a byelection where they know the public want tougher action on climate not backsliding.” “Labour talks about change, but this is change for the worse. We have a climate crisis but Labour is taking the side of fossil fuel corporations, and the voters have a clear choice in this byelection between action on climate change or short sighted rowing backwards.” Voters in Holborn and St Pancras, you know what to do! It's on. I'm running to be the next Green MP for Holborn & St Pancras.donatetothe.greenparty.org.uk — Zack Polanski (@zackpolanski.bsky.social) 2026-09-11T09:56:16.973Z Four weeks to make history – help get Zack to Parliament In just 27 days, voters in Holborn and St Pancras will go to the polls. And we know what Zack will be doing in that time. “Between now and then I’ll be on the doorsteps day in, day out , listening to people about the issues that matter to them.” This is a huge moment for the Green Party in every corner of England and Wales. We have a massive opportunity to elect our sixth Green MP and send shockwaves through the heart of British politics. But this election is not in the bag. We are starting from strength but in second and Zack needs your help to win. There are just four weeks to make history. We can get Zack to Parliament – but we need your help . Come to an action day, join a phone banking session, or put up a posterboard; find all the ways you can help elect our sixth MP . GET ZACK TO PARLIAMENT All featured photos by Aldo Ciarrocchi Tagged Green Party Zack Polanksi Manage Consent To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behaviour or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent