MLAs Pocket Pay Rises While Workers Wait Search Log in Join Log in Join stormont MLAs Pocket Pay Rises While Workers Wait MLA Gerry Carroll and Cllr Shaun Harkin condemn proposals for a further pay rise for MLAs, just months after they were handed an increase of almost 27%. "This is a slap in the face to health workers, civil servants and every public sector worker still waiting on a pay award." 17 Sep 2026 MLAs pushing away striking health workers away from a pile of pounds Stormont is sitting on. People Before Profit MLA Gerry Carroll has condemned proposals for a further pay rise for MLAs, just months after they were handed an increase of almost 27%. Carroll said: "This is a slap in the face to health workers, civil servants and every public sector worker still waiting on a pay award. Five months into the financial year, the Executive has no budget and workers are being told there's no money for fair pay or decent public services. Inexplicably, MLAs are now lined up for another rise on top of the £14,000 they pocketed in April.” "Health workers have already been forced onto picket lines to fight for fair pay, with teachers soon set to follow. They'll rightly ask why politicians get rise after rise while they're told to wait for a pittance. The Executive parties can't hide behind the so-called 'independent' Remuneration Board. This board was created through legislation backed by the Assembly Commission, which includes their own representatives. It is galling that some of them are now feigning outrage at the entirely predictable pay increases.” "Words are cheap. If MLAs from Executive parties are genuinely opposed to this, they should reflect on their own role in setting up the board and put their money where their mouth is by refusing to take the full salary. Politicians should live on the same wage as the people they represent. Maybe then they'd find some urgency to deliver fair pay for workers. The state’s priority must be delivering pay justice for public sector workers - not another hike for MLAs." Cllr Shaun Harkin in Derry Strabane District Council said: "You could not make this up.Stormont MLAs shamelessly grabbed a 27% pay hike only months ago, while working-class households struggled under the weight of rising costs. "Now they are in line to grab another £2,000 pay hike in May. "Not a single Foyle MLA opposed the £14,000 pay hike earlier this year, while they told healthcare workers and many others were told they would be getting nothing. " Sinn Féin, DUP, Alliance, UUP and SDLP MLAs refused to back People Before Profit's motion in Stormont that would have blocked these outrageous pay hikes. "Instead, MLAs told us how hard they work and how important their roles are. No MLA works harder than our healthcare workers, domiciliary care workers and classroom assistants. No MLA is more important than the workers who collectively make our society function day in and day out. "Stormont has criminally denied workers across our society even paltry pay rises. Instead of investing in our public sector workers and providing cost of living support for struggling households, Stormont is ramming through cuts to Community and Youth services, public transport and the health service. MLAs don't need another pay rise. Workers need above inflation pay rises and cost-of-living of living support for struggling households, students and organisations must be the priority. "Stormont's priorities must be completely overhauled. People power is the only thing that can put manners on an out of touch Stormont Assembly and completely overhaul government priorities."