Harkin: Only Crime is Attempting To Stop Gaza Genocide Search Log in Join Log in Join News Harkin: Only Crime is Attempting To Stop Gaza Genocide "We are very disappointed at the judge's ruling in Derry Court House, but not disheartened.... The criminalisation of Palestine solidarity will not be accepted and will be resisted in the courts and on the streets." 16 Sep 2026 Screenshot of the Derry PBP's Instagram post supporting Nina and Goretti background shows Palestine solidarity protest in Derry's Guildhall Square. People Before Profit Cllr Shaun Harkin said, "We are very disappointed at the judge's ruling in Derry Court House, but not disheartened. Goretti Horgan, Nina Pulis and Palestine solidarity campaigners trying to stop complicity with genocide don't belong in court. Their only crime is attempting to stop Israel's Gaza genocide. The Israeli regime along with political and corporate leaders facilitating mass slaughter of Palestinian children and war crimes against humanity should be in court. The hypocrisy is blatant. The criminalisation of Palestine solidarity will not be accepted and will be resisted in the courts and on the streets. The recent shift by the British government to sanction Israeli settlers is a further admission of its criminal failure to oppose genocide and apartheid. The PSNI complain about a lack of funding but appear to have unlimited resources when it comes to targeting Palestine solidarity. Stormont will remain complicit with Israel's crimes as long as it continues to fund the arms industry with direct Invest NI support and rates relief. Instead of addressing the schools funding crisis and long-held frustrations of parents with special needs children, underpaid classroom assistants and overburdened teachers, the DUP Education Minister flew to Israel to stand in solidarity with its war crimes. The FAI insist Ireland's games against Israel should be played despite widespread opposition from across Ireland. Despite the best efforts of the political and corporate establishment, Israel becomes more of a pariah state with the passing of each day. The sound of marching feet continues to terrify those in power. The October 10th global day of action for Palestine is an opportunity to ratchet-up the pressure on governments to end their complicity with Israel, to demand an end to the criminalisation of opposition to genocide and to stand in solidarity with the Palestinian people."